# 4.5.1 - Visualising the data with Google Data Studio (Alternative A)

Go to Google Data Studio: https://lookerstudio.google.com/u/0/
- First create data source > BiqQuery > <taxi rides project> > production > fact_trips
    - If your table has a classword (?) key, lke under the green_tripdata table
        - It has a field `lpep_pickup_datetime` which can be used as a date range dimension for partitioning.
    - Also, if you click on the link on a project/dataset/table, it will open Big Query and show you a preview of the data
- Hit CONNECT

We can see that it shows all of the fields.
- There are some default aggregations automatically
    - The location IDs are set to Sum. Set these back to None
    - Set the rest back to None except set passenger_count to Sum.

Under Metrics there are any metrics you could find use.
- By default always takes Record Count (number of trips)
- Could create aggregations the same way we could create our own fields.
    - If you already know you want to have some transformation fields only the on the BI side, you could set that here.
- Can set descriptions for the fields
- Can set Data freshness in Looker Studio and alert you if it is stale
- Can change the name as well. Fact tables are data modelling thing, end users may not need to know this.

Click CREATE REPORT in the top right.
- Click ADD TO REPORT
- Delete the table that comes up
- Click Add a chart > Time series > Sparkline Chart
    - Drag the data field `service_type` (green or yellow) to Breakdown Dimension.
    - Try another time series chart if need be
- Can Add a control > Date Range
    - This will filter all your data by date range
    - Can set automatically - e.g last week or last quarter to date
- Can change Style on the right
    - Can change the lines to bars, line weight, etc
    - At the bottom, you can change the grid, colors, border weights

Add a scorecard: Add a chart > Scorecard > Compact
- Take out the Data Source
- Can also turn it into a Bar Chart
    - Since we removed date range it will try to pull from trip id

Add a pie chart: Add a chart > Pie > Pie chart
- Should give the service type split immediately.
- Remove date range dimension
- Can use different metrics instead of record count or make other calculations
- Add label 'Service type distribution'

Can see that it is mostly yellow taxi types.
- Huge decrease in March from Covid, that recovers slowly

Make a table: Add a chart > Table > Table with heatmap
- Good to list like top k records of something
- Remove Date Range Dimension
- Want to set `pickup_zone` as the Dimension, so replace th `pickup_datetime`.
    - Shows heatmap with colors immediately
- Can sort this by other metrics as well. Count is okay though
- Add label

Add a stacked bar graph: Add a chart > Bar > Stacked Column Chart (not 100%)
- We do not have the trips per month - only have pickup datetime
    - Leave that
- Want to create a new field that will allow us to filter by month
    - Click on the cart > Data > Add field
    - Enter formula: `MONTH(pickup_datetime)`
- Replace the dimension with `pickup_month`.
- Under Style set the bars to 12
- Can see the amount of trips we have per month
    - But, we know there is a difference between 2020 and 2019
    - This affects the months unnecessarily
    - May also want to drill down by year
- Add a new field with formula `YEAR(pickup_datetime)`
    - Replace Breakdown dimension with `pickup_year` that we just made
    - Replace Sort with `pickup_month`
- Set the Sort to ascending

Something else we can do with Controls: Drop-down list
- Could filter by a field like `service_type`
- Then we could look at just Yellow or just Green

Give dashboard a proper name.
- Then hit View in the top right.
    - This is how a user would see
- Can go back to editing or share it with others.
- Can download as PDF or schedule email delivery
    - E.g. if we have KPI always set to check the last week, we could have this send every Monday